[Music]
So welcome to the next part of our course.
So this time we will talk about
the uniform initialization syntax.
So whenever you define a new variable
and you have another object,
you always should initialize it.
So that means basically give it a value.
If you don't do that it can happen,
as you see in this very simple example here:
You have a local variable "i"
and then if you just define it and you don't initialize it
then it can in principle have any value.
So in order to avoid that problem,
you can now just assign it to "1"
and then of course if you print,
the variable it is "1".
So in the C++ 11 standard there are now several ways,
how you can visualize your variables.
So what you see here in this example
when you just assign it,
this is the so-called "copy initialization".
There is also another way to do it,
this is for this integer case a little bit uncommon,
but it's also perfectly fine
and this is the so-called direct initialization.
And then there is a new way of doing it since C++11:
If you write it with curly braces
then this would be a list initialization.
Of course you can also drop that
and that would be called value initialization
So these are the four different ways
to initialize your variables.
Now let's see some concrete example,
how you can invoke these in own classes.
So let's define a class "X"
and now in order to cover all different kinds of initialization,
I define here several constructors.
So the first constructor just takes as an argument an integer variable
and then I will just print:
Okay this is the one I'm currently invoking.
such that you can see it,
when it is called.
The next one is basically the copy constructor.
So this one takes just a reference to an X object
and again we print that this one is invoked
and then there comes a specific one,
that takes a so called initializer list.
So these initializer lists are defined in the standard library
and basically they are implemented as a template class.
So you can you specify any type, in this case,
I just want to have an initializer list
that takes integers.
And again I copy that one, in order to get the cout.
And the last one I'm also adding is the assignment operator.
So this one has the signature,
that it takes reference to an X
and it returns also a reference to X here.
And insides again
just printing where i am,
copying the signature and after that I also have to return something,
in order not to get an error from the compiler.
And I'm just returning you "this".
Doesn't matter, okay.
So when we compile that, that's perfectly fine.
So this is our test class
to see the different kinds of initialization.
So let's start with defining your object
in a very simple way, by just providing one integer literal as argument,
of course in this case it's obvious
that the first constructor is called
So if we run it of course you have to compile it first...
Ow, okay we have a small mistake here,
if you think about it it's an obvious mistake,
because of course the class starts
with a private access specifier
and therefore the constructor in this case
is of course also private.
So we cannot call it and this results here in an error.
I can fix that in two ways. Either I write now here "struct",
that maybe the simpler way,
or I of course can also use here the public access specifier.
So I decide now to go for the simple "struct" X.
OK and then if I run it,
then you see, OK, you get here the first option.
OK, so that's simple.
Now, let's modify that. Let's say OK we use now the curly braces,
instead of the usual brackets,
that also compiles of course.
And if we run it then what you can observe
is that now we get basically
the third option.
And this is the initializer list.
And here you can also see how it works in practice.
So whenever you use the curly braces for initialization
you get this so-called list initialization.
And this means that basically,
it looks for initializer list as an argument.
And if you have such an argument available,
then it will call that one.
So the same you can now do,
and this is the cool thing about it.
using several integers here,
so if you run it, you will see it calls the same.
So that means an initializer list really is, as expected,
a list with an arbitrary number of arguments.
And this is by the way realized,
by variadic templates internally.
And in this case of course,
they expect your integer arguments.
So, that means if you change it here,
I have now as a third argument not an integer literal,
but double literal and I compile it,
then you get already here
from the compile and error narrowing conversion
of 3.0 from double to int.
So you see this is not a good idea.
Um, okay, what else can you do of course.
You can now have a second object of type X.
And you can basically pass here
as an argument the first one.
This works and what it does is basically,
of course it calls the copy constructor.
So the second one.
So this is what we call an explicit call
of the copy constructor.
Another alternative is the so-called copy initialization.
So here I replace my brackets
that is the directly calling,
so by direct initialization the copy constructor.
This also works
and it will also call the copy constructor.
So in practice sometimes you want to avoid this copy initialization,
for example it can have drawbacks,
if you pass some object by value to a function
and then you have an implicit
call of the copy constructor.
So this can slow down your code.
So a solution to that is if you basically just
declare this copy constructor here as explicit
and then if you want to compile,
get directly an error here
and you will not have an implicit call
to the copy constructor within the copy initialization.
Okay.
Of course what you can do nevertheless is:
let's say we initialize here again like this,
you can write "x1" equals "x2
in this case of course you will get
the classical assignment operator, that is found here.
Okay.
A second example that I want to provide is using another class.
So I just copy this class here
and since it is a little bit more code
I'm just walking through it and explain,
what you see here.
So we define here a struct S that contains as a member a vector
and then it has again a constructor
that takes an initializer list.
Here you have the initialization
in the constructor initializer list of "v",
by this initializer list "l" and then it prints what it did.
Then you have a function append.
This one basically adds to the current vector
the initializer list that you provide.
And then you have another
helper function called "c_arr".
This is a "const" function.
So that means it cannot change the internal members.
This is also not necessary here,
because it just returns returns the address of the first element
of the vector and the size of the vector.
And the interesting thing is,
what you can observe here:
it basically creates a pair out of these two things
and this pair is created by just specifying here
in curly braces the two elements.
So that means this is a way
how you can basically return a list of things
and this is of course sometimes very practical.
What will happen here in that case is basically,
that the corresponding constructor
from the pair class is called
and of course this also has to take then
an initializer list. Okay.
And now last but not least let's do an example here.
Also this one i will copy here.
And then we go through it step by step.
So in the first line you see here,
that an object is created, a small s,
and it is using "int" as a template parameter here
to the s class.
So the vector will contain integers
And then what we observe here, we observe here copy list initialization.
So it's kind of a mixture of the two,
because you have on the one hand the equal.
So this is the copy initialization.
and this one is combined
with the initializer list.
This one can also be short and written like this,
but now, okay, let's do this version.
In this next line you basically append
to this vector three more numbers.
Here you have now a list initialization
in the function call, as you can observe here.
So it takes as argument
and initialize a list then we just print the vector size.
And this is also interesting,
because we can call this member function "c_arr"
and it returns a pair
and then we can print the second member of this pair.
So remember, a pair, you can basically access
by first and second,
so the first in the second element.
Then the next is just basically printing
the contents of the vector to standard out.
So this is using the standard library.
First of all the the copy function,
that gets iterator interval here.
So from beginning to end of the vector
and then it uses an output stream iterator of integers,
to print to the stream "cout".
with a separator, yeah, basically blank.
So after that the whole vector elements will be plotted.
Then in the next line
you see an example here that uses the for each.
So this you can also use now.
That means you have this list minus 1,
minus 2, minus 3, and X will be now
each element of the list.
And then in the body of the loop,
you can print the elements separated by again a blank.
And the last example is here,
the initializer list, that is stored in an auto object.
Of course this is again initializer list
And this also works with a new standard.
So if we print all together,
the things then you see as expected.
The vector size is now of course 8 ints.
Then integer vector is printed
and then during this for loop
the X is printed and the last thing is
the list you get from your
initialization here is of size 3
So all of these things are working.
So let's summarize this new uniform initialization syntax.
So it's called uniform,
because basically you can restrict yourself
to the curly braces notation.
Yeah. The most important new thing is
the initializer list and now if you define
a new class you should by default also provide
such initialization list constructor.
For example in order to be conformed
to the standard library.
OK. So thank you very much for listening
to this part
and we will see each other in the next part.